The long-awaited day had finally arrived.
Many hours of happy preparation were coming to completion.
It was time for the dedication of the newly expanded Liberia branch.
Emotions ran high as delegates from around the world
and long-term friends maintained after many years of absence.
Like coming home, like home.
There's no place like home.
And this is it.
Really.
That's how we honestly feel.
Well, it's been very wonderful.
It's been like coming back home.
We're visiting from Sierra Leone, free town.
From Lothar.
From London, back home.
No, I'm visiting from Kudiwa.
Tanzania.
San Jose, California.
Ghana.
Bermuda.
Mozambique.
From Hawaii.
We are so happy to be back here.
Guests were invited to tour the new facilities.
Members of the better family were on hand to accring them with each department.
To learn little about the local people,
a culture center was set up.
It was popular for cloth,
handicrafts,
and typical foods were on display.
Freshly picked coconuts
and sugarcane provided a refreshing treat.
Also, a traditionally constructed mod house was built.
A highlight of the tour.
It gave visitors a feel for our country life.
The main event was the dedication program.
The publishers.
Most of whom have been serving Jehovah
faithfully for over 30 years.
Eagaly took their seats.
How did the chairman, Winston Besman, feel as he began the program?
I just can't stop smiling.
Because we have all waited for this day.
We have prepared long and hard for this day.
We have done a countdown to this day.
In Kisi, we say Lacha Huno.
In Pelle, we say Kasele.
In Loma, we say Womama Vasu.
In Mano, we say Kasene.
In Arabic, Ahala wasahala.
In Liberia English, we say,
You're welcome, O.
Yes, brothers and sisters.
You are all welcome.
So the dedication program of the Liberia branch expansion.
Thomas Nyen revealed the history of the working Liberia
by interviewing the panel of missionaries
who served here beginning in the 1960s.
First, Royal Wingo commented on a neutrality issue faced
during the Convention in Bangal in 1963.
The matter, a challenge of whether you're going to give Jehovah
his things or whether you were going to give Caesar Jehovah's things.
Who's going to get what?
That's the challenge.
So that question was answered by some faithful witnesses
during that Bangal episode.
My Bennett, now serving at the U.S. branch, spoke about the importance of training on this.
When I first started serving in the traveling work,
I said to myself that the local brothers would really have a larger impact on the congregations.
So then what I did is as I would visit congregations,
I would select young men like Jethro Barclay, Momo Kamara, people like that.
And I would tell them that you should be doing this work, not me.
I said, you have bigger impact.
So then I would take them with me every time I would visit a congregation.
And I would say, would you like to look at the circuit overseer's form?
And so they'd do that.
And then I'd say, would you like to look at the S2 form for recommendations for appointments?
They did that.
I said, would you like to see the program for the circuit assembling?
How it's organized.
So over the years before the war, that's what I did,
not knowing that it would really prove to be providential.
Then Paul Kudos, a former branch committee member in Liberia,
reflected on a comment made during a Zoom visit in 1986.
He said, brothers, the governing body is wanting to appeal to you brothers,
please, is good for us to have help from outside.
But over the years, we have seen the need for more of the local brothers here in Liberia
to reach out so that they can also be used by the organization.
And it was fine that he said that in 1986,
because I believe that in the audience,
where many young brothers and sisters who heard that,
and they took it very seriously.
Finally, but a year spoke with Rafael Harrison.
Most of what we've said here that have been happening
at least in the last 40 years, who was here to see it all?
And it's still here.
Let us finally talk to Brother Harrison.
What were some of the challenges you faced?
Well, I faced my first challenge a few days after my arrival in Liberia
as a single missionary in 1973.
Brother Stephen Reigns, who was here, handed me a territory card for Gardner's Hill.
And he said, well, this would be your personal territory.
This was a real challenge for me.
Why? Well, as a regular pioneer and a special pioneer,
I always worked with partners.
So here, I was in a strange country, a new territory.
And I was on my own.
Natania Thompson and Philip O'Dell then directed a discussion
with several local and international workers.
Unless Jehovah himself builds the house,
it is to know a veil that its builder have worked hard on it,
looking around and seeing this beautiful branch facilities.
No doubt, Jehovah Hand was involved.
Jim, what were some of the challenges in dealing with tearing down a one building
and trying to put another one in its place?
Initially, some of the big challenges were with scheduling.
We were supposed to be finishing in a few weeks,
just renovate the building and we're done.
And that was in the end of 2011.
Have you received any favorable comments from our neighbors
that you can remember or relate to us?
And the mayor of Painsville actually came out and saw the work we were doing.
And he was so impressed.
And he said, people should know that Jehovah's Witnesses
are doing so much to help even in the community.
And it really made us feel good because, I mean,
that's what all this is really for is to give a good witness,
to spread the good news in the territory.
So we're really happy that even secular work can bring honor to Jehovah in that way.
The audience then enjoyed encouraging reports
from representatives of Serolion, Ghana,
and Kenya.
Finally, John Williams mentioned an interesting fact
from the US branch.
Additionally, it is encouraging to see that we now have 11 missionaries
in the United States ready to continue working the fields
that are according to John 434, white
for harvesting.
Warm greetings were then read
from various branches around the world.
But a best man then introduced the long-anticipated dedication discourse.
Our speaker is Brother Guy Pierce,
a member of the governing body.
The dedication discourse is entitled,
be satisfied with Jehovah's goodness.
Brother Pierce, you have our attention.
First of all, we would like to bring greetings to you, brothers and sisters,
from the governing body and the Bethel family in the United States branch.
We deeply appreciate the hard work you're doing in your territories
to advance the interest of God's kingdom,
and it's obvious because the need we have for this branch facility here.
A personal note, my wife Penny and I were delighted to get the invitation
to come to this part of the world.
It's our first time here in Liberia.
I don't know what took us so long.
We enjoyed some of the beautiful countryside and, of course,
the most beauty of all we see in front of us here
with our brothers and sisters.
So we would just want to regret and connect with our visit here.
We're not here nearly as long as we'd like to be.
We'd like to be here long enough to get to know each of you.
Well, but a piece then commented on the purpose of the expansion.
I don't know how it described this when I came here,
but it's elegant with its buildings and gardens and it's practical.
But really, the great thing is not the buildings.
It's the, what the brothers and sisters are doing here.
Please turn to your Bibles to Haggai, chapter 2, verse 7.
It says, and I will rock all the nations
and the desirable things of all the nations must come in.
And I will fill this house with glory, Jehovah of Army sits in.
So it's filling his house with glory of these desirable things
that are brought in to his organization.
And who are these desirable things that you, your brothers and sisters,
you are desirable.
Next, he focused on our motive for seven Jehovah.
Well, certainly, we're not serving Jehovah God just because
we're going to have everlasting life.
Our love for him goes much deeper than that.
Because we love him, we serve him.
The blessings will come. The benefits will be there.
But that's not the reason we serve.
We serve because we love him.
And that's true of the Bethelites.
You're here at Bethel.
And it's not because of the benefits.
Not because of what he's doing for you, but it's your personal attachment.
Your love, your service, Jehovah God.
And so we have this marvelous arrangement now for this dedication.
And we're so pleased to have a part in doing this with your brothers and sisters.
That's the light for us to have a share.
I mean, the earth is filled with excitement.
We see persons who haven't met, seen one another for years, maybe decades.
And it's shown and it's wonderful.
You're ruined and you have here.
And we'd let it be a part of that.
And now it's time for us to give a dedication prayer.
But before we do this, we'd like to get your approval.
So I like to buy a show of hands.
Is this what you choose to do?
Do you want to dedicate these buildings, this branch of unity to Jehovah God?
Let's see your show of hands.
Oh, I guess that's quite obvious, isn't it?
That's what you want.
After a dedication prayer by Thomas Yen,
but a piece shared his close-in tots.
So we have a wonderful thing, allowing us to be his witnesses
and looking forward now to the everlasting future,
of course, under his direction.
And the direction of his organization,
the earthly part of his organization,
seeing the work made it accomplished
and far reaches of the earth.
So keep up the good work.
It's been a real pleasure to be with all of you.
I will look forward to seeing you tomorrow as well.
We're happy hearts.
All seven red tete in attendance
reflected on the programme
every joy is to be part of this specially.
We love this place, we love the people here.
It's a privilege to be here.
I arrived here this morning,
just really pleased like a paradise.
I waited for this day, for 40 years, for the whole year.
And it finally came today.
Very exciting.
I mean, you see that it's one family.
But the young ones that we knew who've grown up
and they're now special pioneers,
death alliance is very, very encouraging.
Yeah, it's been outstanding to see the love in action.
And just the way we've been received,
you can just feel the love is so genuine.
They have welcomed us like family.
It's overwhelming.
I feel happy today to be a mum and sister.
This is an indication that the work is going to take off.
It is not by a mum's power,
but the whole world's full on this dark kindness
has kept me in the service of the natural citizens
wonderful day, blessing day.
I'm very proud to see how things have progressed here,
how the brothers have progressed,
how the organisation has grown,
and we're very pleased with that.
We've got people that will have not seen for so long,
even the mission I've had left here for more than 25 years
who are privileged to meet them here today
and hug them is just a very joyful occasion to me.
I'm very happy.
It's wonderful that the hard-working,
better lights in the local field
can have a place like this now
that they can use to advance the work.
And they say that Liberia gets in your skin
and I absolutely see why.
Well, we'll tend to go on.
We're very happy to be here for any occasion.
Branch office being dedicated to you.
Okay, I'll need to order to go on, thank you.
As I still remember about me,
it brought me to see it.
I'm happy to be here.
And if you see all of these old friends coming by,
it brings down tears.
Today I feel like I'm in paradise already.
It's like half time again on how nice I will be to see everybody
and all time was in particular.
So I'm so happy today.
I'm very, very, very happy.